book/Deployment.markdown, before:

Deployment
==========

Heroku
------

This is the easiest configuration + deployment option.  [Heroku] has full
support for Sinatra applications.   Deploying to Heroku is simply a matter of
pushing to a remote git repository.

Steps to deploy to Heroku:

* Create an [account](http://heroku.com/signup) if you don't have one
* `sudo gem install heroku`
* Make a config.ru in the root-directory
* Create the app on heroku
* Push to it

1. Here is an example config.ru file that does two things.  First, it requires
   your main app file, whatever it's called. In the example, it will look for
   `myapp.rb`.  Second, run your application.  If you're subclassing, use the
   subclass's name, otherwise use Sinatra::Application.

        require "myapp"

        run Sinatra::Application

2. Create the app and push to it

       From the root-directory of the application

       $ heroku create <app-name>  # This will add heroku as a remote
       $ git push heroku master

For more details see [this](http://github.com/sinatra/heroku-sinatra-app)

[Heroku]: http://www.heroku.com

Nginx Proxied to Unicorn        {#deployment_nginx}
------------------------

Nginx and Unicorn combine to provide a very powerful setup for deploying your
Sinatra applications. This guide will show you how to effectively setup this
combination for deployment.

### Installation

First thing you will need to do is get nginx installed on your system. This
should be handled by your operating systems package manager.

For more information on installing nginx, check [the official docs](http://wiki.nginx.org/Install).

Once you have nginx installed, you can install unicorn with rubygems:

    gem install unicorn

Now that's done we can setup a basic Rack applicaiton in Sinatra.

### The Example Application

To start our example application, let's first create a `config.ru` in our
application root.

    require "rubygems"
    require "sinatra"

    require 'myapp.rb'

    run MyApp

Let's now use the `myapp.rb` that we specified in our Rack config file as our
Sinatra application.

    require "rubygems"
    require "sinatra/base"

    class MyApp < Sinatra::Base

      get '/' do
         'Hello, nginx and unicorn!'
      end

    end 

Now that we have our application in place, let's get on to configuring our
proxy.

### Configuration

So if you've made it this far you should have a Sinatra application ready with
nginx and unicorn installed. You're ready to move on to configuring the web
server.

**Unicorn**

Configuring unicorn is really easy and provides an easy to use Ruby DSL for
doing so. In our application's root we'll first need to make a couple
directories, if you haven't already:

    mkdir tmp
    mkdir tmp/sockets
    mkdir tmp/pids
    mkdir log

Once those are in place, we're ready to setup our `unicorn.rb` configuration.

    # set path to app that will be used to configure unicorn, 
    # note the trailing slash in this example
    @dir = "/path/to/app/"

    worker_processes 2
    working_directory @dir

    preload_app true

    timeout 30

    # Specify path to socket unicorn listens to, 
    # we will use this in our nginx.conf later
    listen "#{@dir}tmp/sockets/unicorn.sock", :backlog => 64

    # Set process id path
    pid "#{@dir}tmp/pids/unicorn.pid"

    # Set log file paths
    stderr_path "#{@dir}log/unicorn.stderr.log"
    stdout_path "#{@dir}log/unicorn.stdout.log" 

As you can see, unicorn is extremely simple to setup. Let's move onto nginx
now, soon enough you'll be well on your way to serving up all kinds of great
Rack applications!

**nginx**

Nginx is a little more difficult to configure than unicorn, but still a fairly
straightforward process.

In this example we'll be putting all of our configuration in the
`nginx.conf` file of our nginx installation. You could alternatively separate
some of the configuration out into `sites-enabled` and other nginx conventions.
However, for most common and simple implementations this guide should do the
trick.

    # this sets the user nginx will run as, 
    #and the number of worker processes
    user nobody nogroup;
    worker_processes  1;

    # setup where nginx will log errors to 
    # and where the nginx process id resides
    error_log  /var/log/nginx/error.log;
    pid        /var/run/nginx.pid;

    events {
      worker_connections  1024;
      # set to on if you have more than 1 worker_processes 
      accept_mutex off;
    }

    http {
      include       /etc/nginx/mime.types;

      default_type application/octet-stream;
      access_log /tmp/nginx.access.log combined;
     
      # use the kernel sendfile
      sendfile        on;
      # prepend http headers before sendfile() 
      tcp_nopush     on;

      keepalive_timeout  65;
      tcp_nodelay        on;

      gzip  on;
      gzip_disable "MSIE [1-6]\.(?!.*SV1)";
      gzip_types text/plain text/html text/xml text/css
         text/comma-separated-values
         text/javascript application/x-javascript
         application/atom+xml;

      # use the socket we configured in our unicorn.rb
      upstream unicorn_server {
        server unix:/path/to/app/tmp/sockets/unicorn.sock
        fail_timeout=0;
      }

      # configure the virtual host
      server {
        # replace with your domain name
        server_name my-sinatra-app.com;
        # replace this with your static Sinatra app files, root + public 
        root /path/to/app/public;
        # port to listen for requests on
        listen 80;
        # maximum accepted body size of client request 
        client_max_body_size 4G;
        # the server will close connections after this time 
        keepalive_timeout 5;

        location / {
          proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
          proxy_set_header Host $http_host;
          proxy_redirect off;
          if (!-f $request_filename) {
            # pass to the upstream unicorn server mentioned above 
            proxy_pass http://unicorn_server;
            break;
          }
        }
      }
    }

Once you replace `path/to/app` with the location to your Sinatra application,
you should be able now start your application and web server.

### Starting the server

First thing you will need to do is boot up the unicorn processes:

    unicorn -c path/to/unicorn.rb -E development -D -l 0.0.0.0:3001

It's important to note the flags here, `-c` is path to your unicorn
configuration. `-E` is the Rack environment for your application to run under.
`-D` will daemonize the process, and `-l` is the address which unicorn will
listen to.

Lastly, let's start up nginx. On most debian-based systems you can use the following
command:

    /etc/init.d/nginx start

However, you should check with your distribution as to where the nginx daemon
resides.

Now you should have successfully deployed your Sinatra application on nginx and
unicorn.

Lighttpd Proxied to Thin        {#deployment_lighttpd}
------------------------

This will cover how to deploy Sinatra to a load balanced reverse
proxy setup using Lighttpd and Thin.

1. Install Lighttpd and Thin

       # Figure out lighttpd yourself, it should be handled by your 
       # linux distro's package manager
        
       # For thin:
       gem install thin

2. Create your rackup file -- the `require 'app'` line should require the actual 
   Sinatra app you have written.

       ## This is not needed for Thin > 1.0.0
       ENV['RACK_ENV'] = "production"

       require 'app'
       
       run Sinatra::Application

3. Setup a config.yml - change the /path/to/my/app path to reflect reality.

       ---
         environment: production
         chdir: /path/to/my/app
         address: 127.0.0.1
         user: root
         group: root
         port: 4567
         pid: /path/to/my/app/thin.pid
         rackup: /path/to/my/app/config.ru
         log: /path/to/my/app/thin.log
         max_conns: 1024
         timeout: 30
         max_persistent_conns: 512
         daemonize: true

4. Setup lighttpd.conf - change mydomain to reflect reality. Also make 
   sure the first port here matches up with the port setting in config.yml.

       $HTTP["host"] =~ "(www\.)?mydomain\.com"  {
         proxy.balance = "fair"
         proxy.server =  ("/" =>
                           (
                             ( "host" => "127.0.0.1", "port" => 4567 ),
                             ( "host" => "127.0.0.1", "port" => 4568 )
                           )
                         )
       }

5. Start thin and your application. I have a rake script so I can just 
   call "rake start" rather than typing this in. 

       thin -s 2 -C config.yml -R config.ru start

You're done! Go to mydomain.com/ and see the result! Everything should be setup
now, check it out at the domain you setup in your lighttpd.conf file.

*Variation* - nginx via proxy - The same approach to proxying can be applied to
the nginx web server

    upstream www_mydomain_com {
      server 127.0.0.1:5000;
      server 127.0.0.1:5001;
    }
    
    server {
      listen    www.mydomain.com:80
      server_name  www.mydomain.com live;
      access_log /path/to/logfile.log
      
      location / {
        proxy_pass http://www_mydomain_com;
      }
      
    }

*Variation* - More Thin instances - To add more thin instances, change the 
`-s 2` parameter on the thin start command to be how ever many servers you want. 
Then be sure lighttpd proxies to all of them by adding more lines to the proxy 
statements. Then restart lighttpd and everything should come up as expected.


Passenger (mod rails)           {#deployment_passenger}
------------------------
Hate deployment via FastCGI? You're not alone.  But guess what, Passenger supports Rack;
and this book tells you how to get it all going.

You can find additional documentation at the Passenger Github repository.


1. Setting up the account in the Dreamhost interface

       Domains -> Manage Domains -> Edit (web hosting column)
       Enable 'Ruby on Rails Passenger (mod_rails)'
       Add the public directory to the web directory box. So if you were using 'rails.com', it would change to 'rails.com/public'
       Save your changes

2. Creating the directory structure

       domain.com/
       domain.com/tmp
       domain.com/public
       # a vendored version of sinatra - not necessary if you use the gem
       domain.com/sinatra

3. Here is an example config.ru file that does two things.  First, it requires
   your main app file, whatever it's called. In the example, it will look for
   `myapp.rb`.  Second, run your application.  If you're subclassing, use the
   subclass's name, otherwise use Sinatra::Application.

        require "myapp"

        run Sinatra::Application

4. A very simple Sinatra application

       # this is myapp.rb referred to above
        require 'sinatra'
        get '/' do
          "Worked on dreamhost"
        end
         
        get '/foo/:bar' do
          "You asked for foo/#{params[:bar]}"
        end

And that's all there is to it! Once it's all setup, point your browser at your 
domain, and you should see a 'Worked on Dreamhost' page. To restart the 
application after making changes, you need to run `touch tmp/restart.txt`.

Please note that currently passenger 2.0.3 has a bug where it can cause Sinatra to not find
the view directory. In that case, add `:views => '/path/to/views/'` to the Sinatra options
in your Rackup file.

You may encounter the dreaded "Ruby (Rack) application could not be started" 
error with this message "can't activate rack (>= 0.9.1, < 1.0, runtime), 
already activated rack-0.4.0". This happens because DreamHost has version 0.4.0
installed, when recent versions of Sinatra require more recent versions of Rack.
The solution is to explicitly require the rack and sinatra gems in your 
config.ru. Add the following two lines to the start of your config.ru file:
  
       require '/home/USERNAME/.gem/ruby/1.8/gems/rack-VERSION-OF-RACK-GEM-YOU-HAVE-INSTALLELD/lib/rack.rb'
       require '/home/USERNAME/.gem/ruby/1.8/gems/sinatra-VERSION-OF-SINATRA-GEM-YOU-HAVE-INSTALLELD/lib/sinatra.rb'


FastCGI                                        {#deployment_fastcgi}
-------
The standard method for deployment is to use Thin or Mongrel, and have a 
reverse proxy (lighttpd, nginx, or even Apache) point to your bundle of servers.

But that isn't always possible. Cheaper shared hosting (like Dreamhost) won't
let you run Thin or Mongrel, or setup reverse proxies (at least on the default
shared plan).

Luckily, Rack supports various connectors, including CGI and FastCGI. Unluckily
for us, FastCGI doesn't quite work with the current Sinatra release without some tweaking.

### Deployment with Sinatra version 0.9
From version 0.9.0 Sinatra requires Rack 0.9.1, however FastCGI wrapper from
this version seems not working well with Sinatra unless you define your
application as a subclass of Sinatra::Application class and run this
application directly as a Rack application.

Steps to deploy via FastCGI:
* htaccess
* subclass your application as Sinatra::Application
* dispatch.fcgi

1. .htaccess

        RewriteEngine on
        
        AddHandler fastcgi-script .fcgi
        Options +FollowSymLinks +ExecCGI
        
        RewriteRule ^(.*)$ dispatch.fcgi [QSA,L]

2. Subclass your application as Sinatra::Application

        # my_sinatra_app.rb
        class MySinatraApp < Sinatra::Application
          # your sinatra application definitions
        end


3. dispatch.fcgi - Run this application directly as a Rack application

        #!/usr/local/bin/ruby
    
        require 'rubygems'
        require 'rack'
        
        fastcgi_log = File.open("fastcgi.log", "a")
        STDOUT.reopen fastcgi_log
        STDERR.reopen fastcgi_log
        STDOUT.sync = true

        module Rack
          class Request
            def path_info
              @env["REDIRECT_URL"].to_s
            end
            def path_info=(s)
              @env["REDIRECT_URL"] = s.to_s
            end
          end
        end

        load 'my\_sinatra\_app.rb'

        builder = Rack::Builder.new do
          map '/' do
            run MySinatraApp.new
          end
        end

        Rack::Handler::FastCGI.run(builder)

Commit message:

adding a bit about stopping the server processes

book/Deployment.markdown, after:

Deployment
==========

Heroku
------

This is the easiest configuration + deployment option.  [Heroku] has full
support for Sinatra applications.   Deploying to Heroku is simply a matter of
pushing to a remote git repository.

Steps to deploy to Heroku:

* Create an [account](http://heroku.com/signup) if you don't have one
* `sudo gem install heroku`
* Make a config.ru in the root-directory
* Create the app on heroku
* Push to it

1. Here is an example config.ru file that does two things.  First, it requires
   your main app file, whatever it's called. In the example, it will look for
   `myapp.rb`.  Second, run your application.  If you're subclassing, use the
   subclass's name, otherwise use Sinatra::Application.

        require "myapp"

        run Sinatra::Application

2. Create the app and push to it

       From the root-directory of the application

       $ heroku create <app-name>  # This will add heroku as a remote
       $ git push heroku master

For more details see [this](http://github.com/sinatra/heroku-sinatra-app)

[Heroku]: http://www.heroku.com

Nginx Proxied to Unicorn        {#deployment_nginx}
------------------------

Nginx and Unicorn combine to provide a very powerful setup for deploying your
Sinatra applications. This guide will show you how to effectively setup this
combination for deployment.

### Installation

First thing you will need to do is get nginx installed on your system. This
should be handled by your operating systems package manager.

For more information on installing nginx, check [the official docs](http://wiki.nginx.org/Install).

Once you have nginx installed, you can install unicorn with rubygems:

    gem install unicorn

Now that's done we can setup a basic Rack applicaiton in Sinatra.

### The Example Application

To start our example application, let's first create a `config.ru` in our
application root.

    require "rubygems"
    require "sinatra"

    require 'myapp.rb'

    run MyApp

Let's now use the `myapp.rb` that we specified in our Rack config file as our
Sinatra application.

    require "rubygems"
    require "sinatra/base"

    class MyApp < Sinatra::Base

      get '/' do
         'Hello, nginx and unicorn!'
      end

    end 

Now that we have our application in place, let's get on to configuring our
proxy.

### Configuration

So if you've made it this far you should have a Sinatra application ready with
nginx and unicorn installed. You're ready to move on to configuring the web
server.

**Unicorn**

Configuring unicorn is really easy and provides an easy to use Ruby DSL for
doing so. In our application's root we'll first need to make a couple
directories, if you haven't already:

    mkdir tmp
    mkdir tmp/sockets
    mkdir tmp/pids
    mkdir log

Once those are in place, we're ready to setup our `unicorn.rb` configuration.

    # set path to app that will be used to configure unicorn, 
    # note the trailing slash in this example
    @dir = "/path/to/app/"

    worker_processes 2
    working_directory @dir

    preload_app true

    timeout 30

    # Specify path to socket unicorn listens to, 
    # we will use this in our nginx.conf later
    listen "#{@dir}tmp/sockets/unicorn.sock", :backlog => 64

    # Set process id path
    pid "#{@dir}tmp/pids/unicorn.pid"

    # Set log file paths
    stderr_path "#{@dir}log/unicorn.stderr.log"
    stdout_path "#{@dir}log/unicorn.stdout.log" 

As you can see, unicorn is extremely simple to setup. Let's move onto nginx
now, soon enough you'll be well on your way to serving up all kinds of great
Rack applications!

**nginx**

Nginx is a little more difficult to configure than unicorn, but still a fairly
straightforward process.

In this example we'll be putting all of our configuration in the
`nginx.conf` file of our nginx installation. You could alternatively separate
some of the configuration out into `sites-enabled` and other nginx conventions.
However, for most common and simple implementations this guide should do the
trick.

    # this sets the user nginx will run as, 
    #and the number of worker processes
    user nobody nogroup;
    worker_processes  1;

    # setup where nginx will log errors to 
    # and where the nginx process id resides
    error_log  /var/log/nginx/error.log;
    pid        /var/run/nginx.pid;

    events {
      worker_connections  1024;
      # set to on if you have more than 1 worker_processes 
      accept_mutex off;
    }

    http {
      include       /etc/nginx/mime.types;

      default_type application/octet-stream;
      access_log /tmp/nginx.access.log combined;
     
      # use the kernel sendfile
      sendfile        on;
      # prepend http headers before sendfile() 
      tcp_nopush     on;

      keepalive_timeout  65;
      tcp_nodelay        on;

      gzip  on;
      gzip_disable "MSIE [1-6]\.(?!.*SV1)";
      gzip_types text/plain text/html text/xml text/css
         text/comma-separated-values
         text/javascript application/x-javascript
         application/atom+xml;

      # use the socket we configured in our unicorn.rb
      upstream unicorn_server {
        server unix:/path/to/app/tmp/sockets/unicorn.sock
        fail_timeout=0;
      }

      # configure the virtual host
      server {
        # replace with your domain name
        server_name my-sinatra-app.com;
        # replace this with your static Sinatra app files, root + public 
        root /path/to/app/public;
        # port to listen for requests on
        listen 80;
        # maximum accepted body size of client request 
        client_max_body_size 4G;
        # the server will close connections after this time 
        keepalive_timeout 5;

        location / {
          proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
          proxy_set_header Host $http_host;
          proxy_redirect off;
          if (!-f $request_filename) {
            # pass to the upstream unicorn server mentioned above 
            proxy_pass http://unicorn_server;
            break;
          }
        }
      }
    }

Once you replace `path/to/app` with the location to your Sinatra application,
you should be able now start your application and web server.

### Starting the server

First thing you will need to do is boot up the unicorn processes:

    unicorn -c path/to/unicorn.rb -E development -D -l 0.0.0.0:3001

It's important to note the flags here, `-c` is path to your unicorn
configuration. `-E` is the Rack environment for your application to run under.
`-D` will daemonize the process, and `-l` is the address which unicorn will
listen to.

Lastly, let's start up nginx. On most debian-based systems you can use the following
command:

    /etc/init.d/nginx start

However, you should check with your distribution as to where the nginx daemon
resides.

Now you should have successfully deployed your Sinatra application on nginx and
unicorn.

### Stopping the server

So now that you're using nginx and unicorn, at some point you might end up
asking yourself: How do I stop this thing?

Here's how:

    $ ps -ax | grep unicorn

This will output the processes running unicorn, in the first column should be
the process id (pid). In order to stop unicorn in it's tracks:

    kill -9 <PID>

There should be a `master` process which once that is killed, the
workers should follow. Feel free to search the processes again to make sure
they've all stopped before restarting.

To stop nginx you can use a similar technique as above, or if you've got the
nginx init scripts installed on any debian-based system use:

    sudo /etc/init.d/nginx stop

That should wrap things up for deploying nginx and unicorn, for more
information on stopping the server look into `man ps` and `man kill`.

Lighttpd Proxied to Thin        {#deployment_lighttpd}
------------------------

This will cover how to deploy Sinatra to a load balanced reverse
proxy setup using Lighttpd and Thin.

1. Install Lighttpd and Thin

       # Figure out lighttpd yourself, it should be handled by your 
       # linux distro's package manager
        
       # For thin:
       gem install thin

2. Create your rackup file -- the `require 'app'` line should require the actual 
   Sinatra app you have written.

       ## This is not needed for Thin > 1.0.0
       ENV['RACK_ENV'] = "production"

       require 'app'
       
       run Sinatra::Application

3. Setup a config.yml - change the /path/to/my/app path to reflect reality.

       ---
         environment: production
         chdir: /path/to/my/app
         address: 127.0.0.1
         user: root
         group: root
         port: 4567
         pid: /path/to/my/app/thin.pid
         rackup: /path/to/my/app/config.ru
         log: /path/to/my/app/thin.log
         max_conns: 1024
         timeout: 30
         max_persistent_conns: 512
         daemonize: true

4. Setup lighttpd.conf - change mydomain to reflect reality. Also make 
   sure the first port here matches up with the port setting in config.yml.

       $HTTP["host"] =~ "(www\.)?mydomain\.com"  {
         proxy.balance = "fair"
         proxy.server =  ("/" =>
                           (
                             ( "host" => "127.0.0.1", "port" => 4567 ),
                             ( "host" => "127.0.0.1", "port" => 4568 )
                           )
                         )
       }

5. Start thin and your application. I have a rake script so I can just 
   call "rake start" rather than typing this in. 

       thin -s 2 -C config.yml -R config.ru start

You're done! Go to mydomain.com/ and see the result! Everything should be setup
now, check it out at the domain you setup in your lighttpd.conf file.

*Variation* - nginx via proxy - The same approach to proxying can be applied to
the nginx web server

    upstream www_mydomain_com {
      server 127.0.0.1:5000;
      server 127.0.0.1:5001;
    }
    
    server {
      listen    www.mydomain.com:80
      server_name  www.mydomain.com live;
      access_log /path/to/logfile.log
      
      location / {
        proxy_pass http://www_mydomain_com;
      }
      
    }

*Variation* - More Thin instances - To add more thin instances, change the 
`-s 2` parameter on the thin start command to be how ever many servers you want. 
Then be sure lighttpd proxies to all of them by adding more lines to the proxy 
statements. Then restart lighttpd and everything should come up as expected.


Passenger (mod rails)           {#deployment_passenger}
------------------------
Hate deployment via FastCGI? You're not alone.  But guess what, Passenger supports Rack;
and this book tells you how to get it all going.

You can find additional documentation at the Passenger Github repository.


1. Setting up the account in the Dreamhost interface

       Domains -> Manage Domains -> Edit (web hosting column)
       Enable 'Ruby on Rails Passenger (mod_rails)'
       Add the public directory to the web directory box. So if you were using 'rails.com', it would change to 'rails.com/public'
       Save your changes

2. Creating the directory structure

       domain.com/
       domain.com/tmp
       domain.com/public
       # a vendored version of sinatra - not necessary if you use the gem
       domain.com/sinatra

3. Here is an example config.ru file that does two things.  First, it requires
   your main app file, whatever it's called. In the example, it will look for
   `myapp.rb`.  Second, run your application.  If you're subclassing, use the
   subclass's name, otherwise use Sinatra::Application.

        require "myapp"

        run Sinatra::Application

4. A very simple Sinatra application

       # this is myapp.rb referred to above
        require 'sinatra'
        get '/' do
          "Worked on dreamhost"
        end
         
        get '/foo/:bar' do
          "You asked for foo/#{params[:bar]}"
        end

And that's all there is to it! Once it's all setup, point your browser at your 
domain, and you should see a 'Worked on Dreamhost' page. To restart the 
application after making changes, you need to run `touch tmp/restart.txt`.

Please note that currently passenger 2.0.3 has a bug where it can cause Sinatra to not find
the view directory. In that case, add `:views => '/path/to/views/'` to the Sinatra options
in your Rackup file.

You may encounter the dreaded "Ruby (Rack) application could not be started" 
error with this message "can't activate rack (>= 0.9.1, < 1.0, runtime), 
already activated rack-0.4.0". This happens because DreamHost has version 0.4.0
installed, when recent versions of Sinatra require more recent versions of Rack.
The solution is to explicitly require the rack and sinatra gems in your 
config.ru. Add the following two lines to the start of your config.ru file:
  
       require '/home/USERNAME/.gem/ruby/1.8/gems/rack-VERSION-OF-RACK-GEM-YOU-HAVE-INSTALLELD/lib/rack.rb'
       require '/home/USERNAME/.gem/ruby/1.8/gems/sinatra-VERSION-OF-SINATRA-GEM-YOU-HAVE-INSTALLELD/lib/sinatra.rb'


FastCGI                                        {#deployment_fastcgi}
-------
The standard method for deployment is to use Thin or Mongrel, and have a 
reverse proxy (lighttpd, nginx, or even Apache) point to your bundle of servers.

But that isn't always possible. Cheaper shared hosting (like Dreamhost) won't
let you run Thin or Mongrel, or setup reverse proxies (at least on the default
shared plan).

Luckily, Rack supports various connectors, including CGI and FastCGI. Unluckily
for us, FastCGI doesn't quite work with the current Sinatra release without some tweaking.

### Deployment with Sinatra version 0.9
From version 0.9.0 Sinatra requires Rack 0.9.1, however FastCGI wrapper from
this version seems not working well with Sinatra unless you define your
application as a subclass of Sinatra::Application class and run this
application directly as a Rack application.

Steps to deploy via FastCGI:
* htaccess
* subclass your application as Sinatra::Application
* dispatch.fcgi

1. .htaccess

        RewriteEngine on
        
        AddHandler fastcgi-script .fcgi
        Options +FollowSymLinks +ExecCGI
        
        RewriteRule ^(.*)$ dispatch.fcgi [QSA,L]

2. Subclass your application as Sinatra::Application

        # my_sinatra_app.rb
        class MySinatraApp < Sinatra::Application
          # your sinatra application definitions
        end


3. dispatch.fcgi - Run this application directly as a Rack application

        #!/usr/local/bin/ruby
    
        require 'rubygems'
        require 'rack'
        
        fastcgi_log = File.open("fastcgi.log", "a")
        STDOUT.reopen fastcgi_log
        STDERR.reopen fastcgi_log
        STDOUT.sync = true

        module Rack
          class Request
            def path_info
              @env["REDIRECT_URL"].to_s
            end
            def path_info=(s)
              @env["REDIRECT_URL"] = s.to_s
            end
          end
        end

        load 'my\_sinatra\_app.rb'

        builder = Rack::Builder.new do
          map '/' do
            run MySinatraApp.new
          end
        end

        Rack::Handler::FastCGI.run(builder)
